Since 2019, the three-row SUV's classy styling, roomy and upscale interior, and knockout value have had shoppers practically duking it out for one, with many paying dealer markups or securing their place in line with a factory order. In short, this wasn't the Rubicon trail, but it matched up with the sort of use case Kia has in mind for X-Pro owners—handling terrain that'd be on the extreme end of what you'd likely attempt with, say, your entire family in the car while trying to reach a more-rugged-than-usual campsite. As before, the Telluride lineup also includes the entry-level LX, along with S, EX, and SX guises. Given the new Telluride's enhancements, namely a huge in-car tech upgrade and the introduction of a new, rugged X-Pro off-road variant, we think Kia might want to face the notion it'll need to add even more production capacity in the future. We look forward to comparing the car-based Telluride's X-Pro effort against the segment's other new or newish off-roaders, namely the Ford Explorer Timberline, Nissan Pathfinder Rock Creek, and the upcoming Honda Pilot TrailSport. The new Highway Assist 2.0 system worked well, keeping the SUV centered in its lane better than last year's version; its automated lane changes (hit the signal stalk, and the vehicle will switch lanes left or right if there's space) worked as advertised. There is no low-range gearing, but the locking center coupling, beefier tires, and extra clearance—enhanced by unique bumpers with shaved-away lower portions—are enough to give it a convincing look. But, hey, at least Kia is building more Tellurides this year, so you might actually be able to get your hands on one without sacrificing your firstborn child. Without shifting out of drive, we were able to ease up, let the Kia roll back a foot or so, and scramble over the obstacle with a little more speed. We split our driving time in the 2023 Kia Telluride between an SX Prestige X-Line, which adopts some of the same styling as the X-Pro but rides on 20-inch wheels and street-oriented tires (and effectively replaces last year's Nightfall Edition) and an X-Pro, both on the road and off it.